We've got the
pig's head, and we're going to talk about
all of the different opportunities in here
because there are many.
One application when the pig head is whole
is masking it, is what they call it
when they actually debone it
and we would start under this section here
and find out where the cheekbone is.
And we would start
making our cuts under here
following it around
and boning the whole head out.
I would strongly advise
that you take your time
and again be very cognizant
of where your knife is in relation
to your hand because there is a lot of ins
and outs and crevices to look for
for our applications today .
What we're going to do
is we're going to remove an ear
and we're going to remove one of the jowls
with the cheek on.
So for the ear,
I'll just like to come through
at the base of the ear
and run my knife down like so.
And with the ear,
we can do a few different things
thoroughly cleaning it is a good option.
And then either poaching it,
braising it or deep frying it all options.
I've had them deep fried
before where they're sliced thin
and put on a pig's salad.
It was quite delicious.
And now I want to do is
I want to take off the cheek or sorry,
the jowl with the cheek included
and I'm looking for
what I like to call the smile lines.
I don't know if that's appropriate or not,
but we've got this crease here
and I'd like to follow it up right
underneath the ear.
Like so.
So I'm going to come in
and I'm just going to bring my knife like,
so I want to be right on
top of that cheekbone
in order to maximize the amount of meat
that I'm taking off with that cheek.
So the cheekbone is flat,
so once I find it,
I can just run my knife on it
and make sure that I'm taking off
as much of that
cheek and jowl as possible,
so I've come around
and that really is all the bone resistance
that you're going to find
is that cheekbone.
So once we get around it,
we can then work on removing
the whole cheek itself.
So I will cut down
until I see where it separates
and there's no more glands
then I run my knife right along top.
I remove all of them.
And the same thing
is going to happen on the other side
because we still see some glands in here
too, so I'm going to come in
and remove all of these all the way down.